Greetings. Salaam.
This is Mohsen Banan.
I am a software and internet engineer.
The title of this presentation
is "Blee-LCNT: An Emacs Centered
Content Production and Self-Publication Framework".
Blee stands for
ByStar Libre-Halaal Emacs Environment.
In last year's EmacsConf,
I introduced Blee, BISOS and ByStar
as concepts and as foundations.
This year I want to focus
on one concrete capability.
Content Production and Self-Publication
is a foundational Blee and BISOS Capability Bundle.
Both this presentation
and the Nature of Polyexistentials book
were developed with Blee-LCNT.
In this presentation I want to look at Emacs
as a central ingredient
for a usage environment
that we can use to orchestrate production of
quite fancy multi-media presentations.
Let's consider two different scopes.
First, the scope of Blee-LCNT Capabilities Bundle,
which is that of a complete
multi-media content authorship,
generation, publication
and distribution framework.
That complete scope is presented in this slide
and it spans both black ink
and violet ink.
Second, the scope of this presentation,
which is more limited.
In this presentation I confine myself
to the bullets is violet ink.
Here, I focus on presentation
and video as content types
and their authorship and generation
and their federated re-publication.
This is a common topic.
It makes good sense for us to start with
a review of prior art and similar art.
I went through the past EmacsConf talks
and found a good number of them
that also deal with the topic
of content generation.
A few of these are included
in black ink in this slide.
Many of these have chosen the Babel,
in other words Org-Mode+LaTeX as primary input.
I prefer the inverse of that.
I also looked for past talks
which have used Reveal.js and LaTeX-Beamer.
For example, Sacha's use of Reveal.js
is shown in violet inK.
And Ihor's use of Beamer is in teal ink.
This presentation is about a combination
of Reveal.js and LaTeX-Beamer.
For those who may not be familiar
with Beamer and Reveal,
here is a quick intro.
Among academics, LaTeX-Beamer is the go-to tool
for producing presentations.
Reveal.js is recognized
as the best of breed
for dispensing HTML slide decks.
For many, Reveal and Beamer
live in different universes.
Beamer is pdf oriented
and Reveal is html oriented.
Combining two powerful tools
makes for an even more powerful tool.
This Blee-LCNT Presentations combines
the best of LaTeX-Beamer with Reveal.js.
Beamer primarily functions as producer
and Reveal functions as dispenser
and multi-media enhancer.
Here is how the combination works.
LaTeX Beamer pdf result
is disected into named frame images
which can then be inserted in Reveal.js.
LaTeX Beamer frames can also be
translated into html with HeVeA
which can also be inserted in Reveal.js.
Voice-overs for Beamer frames
can be correlated to frame names
and applied to image or html frames.
Screen captures and image narrations as videos
can be directly dispensed
through Reveal.
There are various additional novel concepts
with regard to the way
that we have integrated all of this together.
Instead of Org-Mode+LaTeX,
we do LaTeX+Org-Mode.
Instead of Babel, we do COMEEGA,
instead of the Literate model
we introduce the Surrounded model.
You shall see various examples
of these shortly.
All of this is part of a bigger picture.
A much bigger picture.
My talks at EmacsConf 2021, 2022
and 2024 are related.
This 2025 talk builds on those.
Last year's talk "About Blee:
enveloping our own autonomy
directed digital ecosystem
with Emacs" in particular,
lays the foundations for this talk.
If you have not seen that,
it would make good sense to review it.
In my previous talks I have been criticized
of having a "prophetic" style.
The scope of ByStar is lofty and immense.
In many ways it is unbelievable.
And EmacsConf talks are meant to be short.
So, as a result, sometimes
I end up being cryptic.
Having accepted the "prophetic" criticism
as legitimate,
I now need to put a book on the table.
With that book in place, moving forward,
when needing to be cryptic,
I shall cite Chapter and Verse.
I am delighted to announce
the availability of my recent book,
"Nature of Polyexistentials".
The full title of my book is:
Nature Of Polyexistentials---
Basis For Abolishment Of The Western
Intellectual Property Rights Regime---
And Introduction Of The Libre-Halaal
ByStar Digital Ecosystem.
Knowledge, know-how, uses of know-how,
ideas, formulas, software and information
are inherently non-scarce.
They are *polyexistentials*.
Unlike monoexistentials
which exist in singular,
polyexistentials naturally exist in multiples.
What is abundant in nature
is being made artificially scarce
through man-made ownership rules
called copyright and patents.
These mistaken ownership rules,
the so called Western IPR regime,
has immense ramifications
on the shape and the direction
of the American Digital Ecosystem.
It would be an understatement to say
that the American Digital Ecosystem
has put humanity in danger.
Two parts of the book, in particular
are of immediate relevance.
Part III, the ethics layer,
focuses on contours of cures.
Having dismissed the Western
intellectual property rights (IPR) regime
as an erroneous governance model for polyexistentials,
I propose the Libre-Halaal model
of governance of polyexistentials
towards facilitating conviviality of tools.
Part IV, the engineering layer,
introduces the Libre-Halaal ByStar Digital Ecosystem.
as an ethical alternative
to the prevailing proprietary
American digital ecosystem.
The book also provides additional details
about the content generation
and publication facilities
that I am presenting here.
And the book itself, as content,
was generated and published
using the facilities
that I am presenting here.
You can think of this book
as being in two volumes.
Our focus are Blee and BISOS in Volume II.
Volume I deals with the general concept
of polyexistence and invalidity
of IPR and our terminoloy of Libre-Halaal---
instead of the common but ill directed vocabulary
of Free Software and Open-Source and FOSS.
In Chapter 11, I introduce
the very sensitive and potent vocabulary
of Halaal and Libre-Halaal.
The contents of this book
belong to all of humanity
and verbatim copying of it is unrestricted.
If you want to read it, this book is yours.
The "Nature of Polyexistentials" book
is available both online and in print.
This book is available as two editions.
The US Edition and the International edition.
The US Edition is written
with a slightly milder Western unfriendly tone,
while the International Edition
includes additional original content in Farsi.
I consider the International Edition
to be the authoritative version.
However, many readers in
the US and Western countries
may prefer the US Edition.
I maintain separate Git repositories
for each edition on GitHub:
US Edition is at bxplpc/120033
and International Edition: bxplpc/120074
Cloning these repositories
will give you access to the book
in PDF format (suitable for both
A4 and US Letter printing)
and in EPUB format.
Alternatively, the content
can be downloaded directly from your browser
without needing to clone the repositories.
To ensure broader online
availability and stability,
I have also published the book on Zenodo,
complete with a DOI (Digital Object Identifier).
You can download both the A4
and 8.5 x 11 PDFs from there as well.
The book is also available in print on Amazon
and at most major bookstores
in the US and Western regions.
The ISBNs for both editions
are included in this slide.
Additionally, I have published
this book in Iran through Jangal Publishers.
I did not write this book for profit.
My aim is to share my thoughts
and encourage readers to engage with my views and ideas.
Your feedback is welcome,
and I am genuinely interested
in hearing your perspectives.
In Western markets, I have priced the print edition
somewhat above production costs.
If you find value in the book
and the ByStar project,
purchasing a copy will help support my work.
Thanks in advance for your support.
And here are the same links
as a native Reveal slide.
If instead of a video,
you are viewing this presentation as a Reveal web page,
you can just click on the pointers and URLs.
Instead of the traditional model
of giving you recipes in a DIY context
towards the goal of creating
content processing capabilities
on top of what you may already have,
I am doing the opposite.
I am saying: take this whole BISOS and Blee thing,
and in there you will also have
the content processing capabil ities
that I am speaking of here.
So, at the top level we have
our own autonomy and privacy
directed digital ecosystem,
which in contrast to the center oriented
American digital ecosystem,
is edge oriented.
We call it: "The Libre-Halaal
ByStar Digital Ecosystem".
All the systems in ByStar,
run BISOS (By* Internet Services OS),
which is a layer on top of Debian.
The usage environment of ByStar and BISOS is Blee
which is a layer on top of Emacs.
With those in place, we then create
a capability bundle called Blee-LCNT.
So, when you buy into Blee and BISOS,
you will naturally also get
these content processing capabilities---
without a need for any recipies or DIY effort.
If you were to look at the model
that I introduced as containment hierarchies,
it would look like this.
We love Emacs and we love Unix
because their design is convivial.
By convivial, I am referring
to Ivan Illich's concept
and terminology of "Tools for Conviviality".
It was first published in 1973.
It's a must read.
A goal of the design
of the ByStar Digital Ecosystem
is to enlarge the aggregated
conviviality of its capabilities.
What distinguishes Blee-LCNT
from other content processing tools and frameworks,
is our emphasis on enhancing
the aggregated conviviality.
These tools let you express yourself.
They let you be in charge.
Here is our parts list.
These are the components
that we have chosen to bring together
towards our goal of creating convivial tools.
In this slide we are using black ink
to denote exisiting tools
and we use violet ink
to denote pieces that we have developed
towards cohesive integration.
[This] video,
the video is just one of the outputs.
There are other outputs as well.
In this figure, the outputs
are shown in the top layer.
Using this video as an example,
this presentation's output also include
the "Presentation Form"
and the "Article-Presentation Form".
Let's look at these more closely.
For Presentations, there are 3 different forms.
The Video Form, the Presentation From
and the Article-Presentation Form.
The Presentation Form produces both a pdf output
and Reveal output.
Next we will walkthrough some of the benefits
that availability of these forms
and formats provide.
The video presentation that you are watching
is just one of the outputs
of the Blee-LCNT machinery.
There are two PDF format outputs
and two HTML outputs
that are also quite useful.
The primary output of Beamer
is a set of slides
that people use to give their talks with.
Typically that's done live.
In my case I dissect the images of each frame
and do a voiceover on it
and then dispense it through reveal.
In a second you will see that as well.
This PDF output is very useful.
You get the table of contents of course
and in addition to that Beam er
generates navigations for you
where on any part you get
a small table of content as well.
This is heavily used amongst academics
and it's a good output on its own
and I'm augmenting it
in a variety of ways.
In addition to the presentation PDF format
there is also an article-presentation PDF format
which gives you the same content
but it gives it to you in a textual form
with the table of content and the rest.
This is a good form to use
when you are giving for example class lectures
and the students often prefer this format.
Now for the HTML format
outputs the most relevant
of course is the reveal itself.
If you have not used reveal before.
In my view it's a HTML slide dispenser.
I don't look at it as a presentation framework.
I use, as you are seeing, we use Beamer to feed into it
and we use it to dispense the information.
It has all the typical navigation
capabilities that you would expect
and most of what I have as slides are images
but occasionally particularly when there is a need
to provide pointers, HTML pointers.
I then also include a textual output.
This is also produced
from the Beamer latex source
but it's HTML through textual HTML
through HeVeA not the image.
You can... you get a table of contents.
You can navigate and there are a whole lot of other features
that reveal also provides.
So to generate the video,
what I do is I come to
the very beginning of the presentation.
I turn on the screen capture recorder
and then I start playing
the voiceover for each slide
and at the very end you get a video
but what you just did is you dispensed every frame
one at a time through reveal.
In addition to this HTML form
you also get a article presentation form of it
with a full table of content
and the videos are there and the notes are there
and this is also quite useful.
Now, let's look at the one single input file
that produced all of the outputs
that we just saw.
I have put both the input file
and some of the output files
for this presentation on github.
Here are some links
to these repos and files.
And here are the same links
as a native Reveal slide.
This figure gives us an overview
of how one set of inputs
encapsulted in a single file
can produce all of the outputs that we saw.
The main TeX file shown at the bottom
is processed by both XeLaTeX and by HeVeA.
That main TeX file, in addition
to LaTeX syntax
also include org-mode constructs
that facilitate addition of audio and video files.
Later, I'll walkthrough the bodyPresArtEnFa.tex file
that generated this very presentation with you.
When you construct that primary TeX file,
there are several abstractions
that you need to keep in mind.
Is my presentation going to go
from Left-To-Right or from Right-To-Left?
Perso-Arabic presentations go from Right-To-Left.
Another consideration is the types
of forms of results that you want.
Just the presentation
or Article-Presentation as well?
With those choices in place
you can produce condition based text
for each of your desired outputs.
Think of this video presentation
as a sequence of frames.
Each frame is controlled by an org-mode dynamic block.
This table lists available dblocks
from which you can choose.
For example, this particular frame
that we are watching
is controlled by b:lcnt:pres:frame/derivedImage.
Beamer creates a pdf file
that includes the image of this slide.
That image is then injected into Reveal.
And in the end a video of that image is produced
with the narrations
that I am uttering right now.
All of this has similarly been applied
to each and every frame
that you have been watching.
Similar to Frame Controls,
there are org-mode dynamic blocks
for "Frame Body Types".
You can easily insert an image
which is typically created by OpenOffice Draw
into a frame.
Same with say a screen capture video.
Now that we have looked at the "Outputs" and the "Inputs",
let's look at how the Outputs
are generated from the Inputs.
Let's bootstrap Raw-BISOS and Raw-Blee.
Starting from scratch,
get yourself a fresh copy of Debian 12.
Then go to https://github.com/bxGenesis/ start
The README.org file
of that github repo
is same as Chapter 18,
"Engineering Adoption of BISOS and ByStar" of the book.
We will next run "raw-bisos.sh",
but prior to that let's take a quick look.
This bootstrap scripts will do a lot as root
on your Fresh-Debian.
It is best to first try it
on a disposable VM.
raw-bisos.sh adds the current debian user to sudoers.
Then it installs pipx.
And then with pipx it installs
from PyPI bisos.provision.
bisos.provision includes additional bash scripts
that are then executed.
Full installation involves
setting up various accounts, groups,
various directory hierarchies,
lots of apt packages
and lots of python packages
from the bisos namespace.
If you are ready, copy and paste
this line and run it.
You will be prompted
for the root password.
Then be patient.
Full installation
can take 15 minutes or so.
The logs of this script
are also captured
in ~/raw-bisos-$-log.org
Now that we have Raw-BISOS and Raw-Blee installed,
we are ready to walk through
the unified source
of the very presentation
that you are watching.
The "bodyPresArtEnFa.tex" file
that we will visit
is in COMEEGA-LaTeX syntax
with lots of org-mode dblocks
which generate Beamer-LaTeX frames
and conditioned LaTeX bodies.
After the walkthrough,
I'll describe dblocks and COMEEGA in more detail.
At the tail end of the walkthrough,
we will also go through the generation process
which runs XeLaTeX and HeVeA and a lot more.
Let's look at our input file.
It's a LaTeX file in LaTeX mode
and it has org syntax org-mode included in it
and I can toggle between LaTeX and org-mode
so, now I'm gonna be in org-mode
and org-mode gives me everything
that org has to offer
including a very convenient navigation framework.
So let's take one slide and take a look at how it was done.
So I would come to this scope slide
and while I am there I'm gonna click on N.
N takes me to the native LaTeX form back
so that I'll be looking at it not in org but in LaTeX.
So we're back in LaTeX and as you can see it
uses a dynamic block
starting with the comments and the BEGIN
and it uses a dynamic block
named a framedDrive image
which means the content of this frame
will be dispensed as an image not as text
and it also automatically creates for me
a name, a label, that can be used
for voiceover augmentation.
So a file in the audio directory
called ScopeOfBleeLcnt.mp3
is this audio that will come on top of this slide
and then the rest is the LaTeX itself.
The concept of "Org Dynamic Blocks"
is very powerful.
I think of them as universal
visible macros.
But, why should they be primarily used in just Org-Mode.
I say let's generalize them
to "Emacs Dynamic Blocks".
Have defaults for org-dblock-start-re
in every relevant mode
and use them everywhere.
Blee does that.
In COMEEGA-LaTeX, Dynamic Blocks create Frame Controls
and insert Image and Video contents.
Much of Blee and BISOS
are implemented in COMEEGA.
Almost all of our Elisp, Python, Bash
and LaTeX work uses COMEEGA.
COMEEGA stands for Collaborative
Org-Mode
Enhanced Emacs Generalized Authorship.
It is the inverse of org-babel.
COMEEGA adds org-mode
to your programming mode.
Full and proper use of COMEEGA,
requires Polymode.
Let's call that Poly-COMEEGA.
But Emacs's Polymode
is work-in-progress,
particularly now with the new tree-sitter.
So, in the interim, my usage of COMEEGA
has been in the form of Toggle-COMEEGA.
Where I manually switch between
the programming-mode and org-mode.
For me this has proved to be
a fine interim solution.
Naturally, content processing
should be multi-lingual
and internationalized.
Let's look at that dimension.
I am Iranian and much of what I write is in Farsi.
Getting Perso-Arabic text right
is often a challenge,
as it involves Bi-Directional text (BIDI)
and shaping of characters.
In the context of our content generation
these need to span all relevant tools,
not just emacs.
For emacs, I have created
my own input method
called farsi-transliterate-banan.
My EmacsConf 2021 talk was about that.
Now let's look at some examples
and spice it up a bit with semantics.
As and example of proper BIDI text,
here is the orignal Farsi text
along with English translation
of Imam Khomeini's text
with respect to invalidity
of Western Intellectual Proprty Rights regime.
And as another example
of proper BIDI text,
here is Ayatollah Mothari's take on Western IPR
not being private property. Note that these predate
by more than half a century
Jack Dorsey and Elon Musk's tweets of April 11, 2025
saying "Delete all IP law".
This topic is too important
and too sensitive
to be left to American Billionaires
and their tweets.
Let me again refer you to the logic
of polyexistentials in my book.
Chapter 14 of the book is dedicated to
Ethics and ownership in Religions.
With respect to my preference
for Ethics over Freedom,
let me refer you to Section 12. 4
"A Cynical Perspective
on Freedom Orientation of Americans"
in which I describe where the FOSS labels
and the likes of Stallman, Raymond,
Moglen and Lessig have gone wrong.
If you are one of their followers,
perhaps Chapter 12 is for you.
My emphasis thus far has been on content generation.
Let's very briefly also look at
Autonomous Self-Publication
and Federated Re-Publications of our content.
From the very beginning the Debian folks
understood the importance of "Universality"
and coined the "Universal Debian" label.
This means that we can base
our entire digital ecosystem
on just the Libre-Halaal Debian distro.
And that is what we have done with ByStar.
In ByStar everything is based on
just the Universal Debian everywhere.
This has made our Usage Environment
totally harmonious with our Service Environment
allowing for very powerful software-service continuums.
Of course, all of this is immediatly applicable
to our ByStar Content Bundle as well.
Some have asked, why don't you also include Ubuntu?
I think the opposite makes more sense.
Ubuntu should converge with Debian.
I tried to explain this to Mark Shuttleworth
in an email a while back.
I have included that email
in Section 12.1.5.
In this presentation, we have stopped
at the "Raw-BISOS" stage.
We can further evolve Raw-BISOS
and make it be "Sited"
and provide autonomous publication services.
But here by going through EmacsConf and youtube
we are using the "Federated Re-Publications" model.
Something this large,
should be well documented.
In Emacs, the way that
we have been dealing with documentation
and information retrieval is archaic.
Man-pages, TeXInfo, Helpful-Mode
and convention based Doc-Strings are old and limited.
In BISOS and Blee, we use Blee-Panels
for all kinds of documentation.
Let me show you some examples.
So, what next?
If Blee, BISOS, ByStar, Libre-Halaal, Polyexistentials
and these Content Processing capabilities
have piqued your interest,
please feel welcome to contact me.
These Emacs Conferences have proven
to be very useful and productive.
I look forward to your thoughts,
feedback and questions.
I want to thank all the EmacsConf 2025 Organizers
for their great work,
and Sacha in particular.